The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Yeah. I mean, there's a, there's a great Tony Saba, the futures.
He shows a picture of the 19, oh, the 1900 Easter parade in New York city.
And it's all horses. Hmm. Looking down from a building. I dunno if you find it,
Jamie 1905 or 1900 Easter parade, and it's like, there's a one car.
Oh. And then 13 years later it's like find the horse. Wow.
And that these transitions, they take, you know, about 10, 12 years, you know,
uh, you know,
12 years ago we were punching the number two key on our flip phones,
six times to text a capital C mm-hmm <affirmative>. And, and I,
and I think we're, you know, we're gonna be doing the same thing with, you know,
with, uh, with, you know, the transition with food.
I think it's gonna be going that way. Do you know what you said?
Do you think that they're gonna be,
do you have hope for all this lab created meat? What do you,
what do you think about, I mean, I know there's,
there's some process that I don't totally understand where they're able to make
actual biological, like bison meat.
Cow meat. I'm doing a, a, a film series right now called food 2.0.
And I had dinner on Saturday night, two nights ago with Uma,
the guy that founded me Memphis meets. And, you know, I,
I have the same sort of ickiness about, you know, going that direction,
but he showed me these pictures on his flip on his phone of, um,
of this chicken breast that he's making. And, you know,
I stopped eating meat about 10 years ago, but I thought it didn't look bad.
You know, it looked, he had like, it, it chopped, you know, so that,
and it was grilled and it thought, you know,
I I'd have this sort of repulsion and against it myself cuz I've um,
you know, got myself off of it. But I looked, I looked at that and I thought,
you know what? That, that looks really edible looks good. Somebody that,
that could eat meat, you know, that, that would be appetizing.
Yeah. It seems like the science it once, whatever it is, right.
It's tissue and whatever that tissue is,
it's comp of a bunch of different natural ingredients, right? Whatever, uh,
whatever creates a Turkey breast,
it seems like it's just a matter of innovation and technology proving to the
point where they could recreate that.
Yeah. No, the, the question is, you know, is that,
you know, is that better for you than, you know,
the whole foods plant based diet or that's.
The real question, right? Cause that's where things get convoluted. Like what,
what is healthy versus what is ethical versus what makes you feel like you're
doing the right thing morally?
Yeah. You know, the way, you know, I stopped eating, you know,
meat about 1986. I went to a, a, I was doing a,
a story for fortune magazine on the biggest independently owned cattle ranches
in America. And there's one that was so big in Oklahoma,
they had their own slaughterhouse and they supposed to, you know, they,
they kill the animal with this captive bolt to the brain it's supposed to happen
instantly. But there was one animal that came around and it was still alive.
And it was at that point,
it was hanging upside down and it flesh and it's hide was stripped off.
And it's looking at me with its eye and it's following my eye as it's it hide
was stripped off and it was still alive. Yep. And it's, and it's,
as it's turning around, it was turning his head and it's still held my eye.
And I thought the son of a is alive and I'm part of part of this.
So I stopped eating meat shortly after that. And so I thought, well,
I have to eat something, right.
I have to eat an animal product because you know,
you're gonna Shivel up and die if you don't. And then, uh,
so I became a pescatarian. That's all I ate for animal protein. Well, you know,
milk and dairy, but I didn't eat.
I limited myself to things that, that didn't walk, that didn't walk.
So Phish was like fair territory for me. And then when we made the Cove,
there's a scene in it where we take a,
a sample of hair from the deputy minister of, of fisheries there. And, uh,
we tested for mercury. And when we, you, why it was out at the lab? I thought,
well, I get mine tested too. Cuz I was, I ate a lot of fish. I loved it.
My son's still a professional fisherman.
And I had a freezer full of fish all the time stocked up of, you know,
fresh ocean, whether not fresh but frozen ocean fish.
And I had it for breakfast, lunch and dinner all the time. Then when, you know,
we got his labs back sample back, it was eight times higher than was high,
which is like, you know, you don't want any mercury in your body.
Mercury's the most toxic, non radioactive development in the world. And my,
my levels were 44 times higher Jesus.
Now, were you experiencing any physical.
Effects of that? I was having, um, trouble with my short term memory.
I had an a in my shoulder that was there for probably decades and I, you know,
I try to get it massaged out. And then if you start looking through the, um,
you know, the problems with, with mercury, you notice that there's,
there's a whole litany of things that are causes depending on how bad you have
it. But my doctor said, it's the worst he'd ever seen in Colorado.
So I had to get off of it. And then I, you know, this is so we're,
we're here in LA for the academy awards. And I met my first vegan and I said,
what do you eat? And she goes, everything else, you know,
all protein originates with plants. And that was how I got started.
And it took a, you know, I thought, okay, well mercury has a halflife in,
in your body of about 70 to nine days.
And so it took me about two years to get it down and I thought, well,
I'll just try a little, two years.
To get it down. Why did.
It take so long? It's cause it has a halflife in your body of 70 to 90 days.
So 44 goes to 22 0 90 to 180, so, okay. Yeah. So it's, I thought,
okay then I'll start eating a little bit of fish and then it Jack, you know,
I had a tester right away and a Jack back up and I thought, okay, I can't, oh.
Fish is poison.
Oh, big fish is poison for sure. You know, big fish like tuna, tuna, swordfish,
Marlin. So what.
Are the,
what are the recommendations they tell you're not supposed to eat it more than a
couple times a week or something like that.
But it seems like if it's got a halflife of.
I don't trust any of that. I mean like, like, I mean,
I can't mess with it. I mean, if you, when I was in Japan,
I went to Miata where they had the, they call it Miata disease,
but it's not a disease it's poisoned. This there's a, um,
a company that was intentionally polluting the bay where there's a lot of
fishermen and the kids of course got, well,
the cats got affected first cuz the people give the, uh,
the fish to the cats and the cats would've had called dancing cat disease.
Now you heard the, the expression, Matt, a Hatter that's because they had the,
the felt from a hundred, 150 years ago,
they used to cure the felt the beaver felt on, on top hat,
but they would use the mercury and the patterns would go mad
in Miata. The cats got affected in the kids. And then, you know, the,
the people, a couple hundred thousand people got affected and these were,
remember this is 1950s, a remote remote villages.
And an American researcher went there and saw that everybody looked weird
and said something going on here. And he found out that they were dumping,
you know, mercury into the bay. And I saw,
I visited a doctor there that studied Miata disease.
He was the guy that was in charge of figuring out compensation for what,
what they owe people. And he showed me these brains of, you know,
they sliced open and it looked like Swiss cheese. What we're talking about,
the convolutions of, of the brain and how dolphins have more of 'em,
same thing with people. But you know,
and the ones with the slices that look like Swiss cheese with the holes that are
it's, the Mercury's eating up in the brain. And so you don't want, you know,
once you see that you said you don't want that in your body. So, um,
I had to get off fish and become a vegan, not by for ethical reasons,
but because of, I just couldn't eat it. I just, for health reasons. Um,
but I'm doing just fine. How.
Crazy is that that most fish is poison.
Like that is, that is such a crazy thing to think that the ocean is so up,
that most of the food you pull out of the ocean is a mess. Well.
I mean, most of the fish that we're eating, I think 54% is farm raised.
And what I read again, I just read it this morning in Los Angeles magazine,
but that's worse. Right? It's worse. Yeah. And you know,
the ecological damage it's doing is, is crazy. The, the,
the health consequences is crazy. See, so the,
the question is then what do we eat? I know what.
About mals? So one of the things that someone told me that was, uh,
actually someone who's a vegan told me about Malus.
They said you can make an ethical argument.
That mals are actually less complicated life forms and even plants.
And they don't have the same nerve endings. They don't really move,
they open and shot and a, a viable form of animal protein.
That is just so primitive. It's I heard that too. Yeah. It's just,
they're just not like we think of them as life forms, but so is broccoli.
That's a life form as well,
but there there's actually more evidence that plants
are intelligent than there is that mosks are MOS are an
incredibly ancient life form. But then again,
don't you get some sort of mercury poisoning from them as well.
Well, they're, they're on the bottom, right? Usually. And they're,
they're filtering. So you're, you're getting whatever PO whatever toxins are.
I'm not gonna say that, you know, Molis are, are poison. I just wouldn't eat.
I I'm going a completely different direction,
but I've heard that before that MOS.
Are, you can farm them too. Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> you can. Yeah. I mean,
if we really can break down that they're even more primitive,
but yet more nutritious.
God, you know, like, you know, I, I did a story in Polynesia on,
on oysters and they have the big oysters that they get, you know,
put through for pearls, giant oyster. And they, they don't,
they just eat the muscle that holds all the, the organs and stuff on, you know,
when I said, oh, in, in America we eat the whole oyster. They're like what?
You know, because the muscle tastes like, like fish, flesh.
It's actually pretty good. But you know,
the idea that we're eating all those other filtered or organs and stuff,
I just don't know. I don't. Uh.
But you don't know, you know, I don't know. You don't know.
I.